---
# Documentation: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/managing-content/

title: "0.0 - Refresh and COVID 19"
subtitle: "Preamble - Context"
summary: "I will be taking you through this UX course for this next semester. The idea is that you'll get a broad overview of user experience, but it won't be some deep dive because you'd need a whole programme to do that."
authors: [Simon Harper]
tags: [user experience, assignments, lectures, exam, synchronous, ux, update, change, understand, asynchronous, development, refresh, architectures, lockdown, instance, integrate, audio podcast, thought, aspects, repo]
categories: []
date: 2020-07-21T10:41:24+01:00
lastmod: 2020-07-21T10:41:24+01:00
featured: true
draft: false
reading_time: true
share: false
profile: true
commentable: false
editable: false

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder.
# Focal points: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight.
image:
  caption: ""
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: 

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this post with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["internal-project"]` references `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects: [part-0]
---

I will be taking you through this UX course for this next semester. The idea is that you'll get a broad overview of user experience, but it won't be some deep dive because you'd need a whole programme to do that.

* {{% staticref "files/ux36-0.0_slides.pdf" "newtab" %}}Download the Slides{{% /staticref %}}
* {{% staticref "files/ux36-0.0_transcript.pdf" "newtab" %}}Download the Transcript{{% /staticref %}}
* {{% staticref "files/ux36-0.0_subtitles.srt" "newtab" %}}Download the Subtitles{{% /staticref %}}

# Video

{{< video src="ux36-0.0.mp4" controls="yes" >}}

# Transcript
Hi, I'm Simon and I will be taking you through this UX course for this next semester. So this is User Experience (UX 36), the reason why we call it UX 36 is because it's a 36,000 feet view of the whole user experience landscape. The idea is that you'll get a broad overview of user experience, but it won't be some deep dive because you'd need a whole course to do that a whole programme to do that, in fact. So, let me welcome you to this refresh video. And so you might be asking, Well, why are we refreshing? Well, obviously we're refreshing for COVID-19 that's why you're watching a video of this not me in  person. To refresh happens for the user experience course probably every year with minor updates Things change all the time. So see really good idea to be able to refresh just what you're doing. But it's time for a major refresh. And it's been time for a major refresh for a year or two, I thought that we could do some more and add some more little bits to give you a good broad understanding of user experience and where it is now.

This course was written six years ago, things change. And so some, some big updates need to be need to be gone through. And I did plan to do this on the sort of next year. So next September 21-22. But obviously, with COVID-19, lockdown as hastened these changes, so therefore, it's useful to just make this a gigantic update all in one go. So that's what we're doing. It's going to be a large update for the entire course, for this year, so you're kind of lucky that you've got this entire update all in one go. The unit's expanded, so it's become more complete. So for instance, we're doing things on digital phenotyping, which we'll get to but this wasn't included in the prior work, as you'll see, also, the course itself will be included as a GitHub repo. And that's because a lot of people say they want to clone that repo so that they can use it when they leave the university so that the stuff doesn't go away. And so therefore, I thought it was best to kind of make a large change, you'll still be doing your assignments, etc, on Blackboard as you're used to. But for this point, the major meat of the of the of the update is going to be on GitHub. It will be on GitHub Pages for the website, and then you can just clone that entire repo, get everything that you need to get including the videos etc, etc. And there's also been changes to The definition of what user experience is, now we'll get to this in more detail later on, but it's really important to understand that we really need to make sure that we understand what UX is, what user experience is, what the user experience is not what the user experience designer is, product design, visual design. So all these things have kind of competing, mind space, if you like, for people in the area. And so it's a good thing in some ways, because nobody really knows what it is. 

So we can kind of make user experience ours. But also it can be confusing unless you explicitly decide to kind of understand what UX is define what UX is for you personally. Changes for version four. So the reason why it's version four is because they we've been through a number of large version changes and so this is a this is a main Version change. But there's also been lots of little changes where, you know, for typos and those kind of things, which actually, students send emails about all the time, you know, there's a typo here. Can we change this? Can we change that and of course we do over time. And there's some reordering of the material from the last time because I thought that it could do with a refresh with these new chapters that I'm adding in these new lectures that I'm adding some of some of the material need to be reordered. Some changes in emphasis. So for instance, I used to do a full scale two hour lecture on anatomy. And really, you need to know about anatomy, you need to know that these kind of aspects of the human body and human behaviour exist so that you can write your code for them better, but you don't really need to know the depth. So that's now gone out and it's no it's kind of contextual work. We've got additional sections on visual design, just really just really to give completeness so that you understand what again, what that is, again, that's contextual. So you want to kind of look at it, but you don't really need to have a deeper understanding of visual design, because you're not visual designers. You know, we order that service in. So we don't really need to think about that. There are sections, additional sections on UX design, what graphic design is the nature of product design, these kinds of things. And I've also reintegrated the UX development overview now, in previous years, I started off with this thing called developing under the umbrella which was really about how to develop for user experience if you were a developer, but also, how you might speak to developers about best practice for user experience when it comes to development. You know, because it's a complete system.

Obviously, the Agile process is a complete system. Remove that, because I thought, well, actually, you guys already are computer scientists already software engineers, you know, you know all this information. But then I was asked to bring it back after a couple of years. And also, I've updated it with some additional aspects of MVC. So model view controller architectures, but more importantly of micro services architectures and DevOps. I decided to bring this back, because these are awesome ways of integrating user experience into continuous development life cycles, and also into the architectures that arise from those. You'll see that in the UX development part, we're talking about separation of concerns, and that separation of concerns is really important for us to to understand. Now. That's all come back. And so we'll be going through that at the very end. But also we've got some other aspects on prototyping because people wanted a bit more or to understand a bit more on prototyping what that is and rapid application development what that is and how it fits in. There's also some light statistics and when I say light statistics, I mean very light statistics. It's mostly me ranting. Okay, so do not worry about this. It's mostly me talking a lot about statistical analysis and how we should be doing it and how you should make sure that you understand at least some aspects of stats, even if there are only a descriptive stats. And there's a changing topic title. So some of the topic titles were a little bit obscure. So for instance, you know, developing the umbrella, what does that really mean? So, you know, we've changed it to make it more explicit. Obviously, there's video lectures, and there's also audio podcasts. Now, I'm hoping that we're going to put these video lectures in audio podcast, as well as being in the as well as been in the GitHub repo, some way to kind of integrate them into third party systems so that you can actually listen to an audio podcast on your normal podcasting system. You don't have to do anything different. It should just integrate into your life really, the big change is that we're going to be removing the exam as the key assessment method, or at least the exam at the end of the course that you do in a normal exam setting what we all think of as an exam. Okay, so that's the main thing that that kind of changes here. And what we're going to have and we'll get to this in the welcome talk that I'll be giving shortly, when we get to is a an exam that is kind of more blended into the course.

So we've we've moved, we used to have three assignments now we have one formative assignment, two summative assignments, those are open book, you get the assignment beforehand, everything's good. We then we then in the exam used to have some multiple choice questions, and we also used to have some kind of shorter answer type questions. These have been taken from the old exam, put together into one assessment. And that's also an assessment now, that gets delivered later on in the year. And it comes from a question bank. So you'll need to know everything, everybody will be delivered a different kind of exam a different set of questions, even though they're all multiple choice, you'll get a random set from the question bank and there's about 150 questions in the question bank, if you've managed to memorise them all great, but the reality is that that's unlikely; so you'll still need to have some understanding of the user experience behind it. Then we've also got a larger assignment type of sessional, if you like, exam, whereby you're doing it remotely, you're doing it asynchronously, you'll have a set period of time to do that in. But again, the questions are all different, you'll be presented with different questions. So this update, as I say, is a major update that COVID-19 forced. It's been put off because it was a large amount of work and I wanted to do this in a graduated step, but because we're all you know, sitting around in our homes in lockdown, then I've got quite a lot of time now to do this. Now, of course, I'm not really in a swanky lecture theatre come conference room, I'm here in the front room of my house, it's the front box bedroom trying to do this in front of a green screen. It's just me in front of a green screen. There's nothing to see here. Okay, let's get back to the lecture.  So the assignments and testing have changed. And reality is that even though we've been forced to make these changes by the by the situation, it's better, that better. They're the kind of assignments and testing that I've wanted to do for a long time but couldn't get the approval for now all bets are off, we've suddenly got the got what we need. So I'm really pleased that that we've been able to get these assignments and testing changes through. And they're just the kind of things we wanted. So this is going to be really good. Now, we won't be physically co present, so we won't be in the same room. I imagine we wouldn't be anywhere at this point in the same room. But we'll have two different things. We'll have asynchronous work, and we'll have synchronous work. So asynchronous means that it's this kind of thing, video lectures. They'll also be asynchronous discussion topics via discord probably.

So you will leave questions that you need answering etc. and I will answer them over the period of week but we won't be on the platform probably at the same time. And then we'll have synchronous sort of lectures. So those synchronous lectures will probably be occurring about once a week. They'll be us via zoom or something like this.  We'll be going through example, But also there'll be discussion there. And we'll see why you can't skip these or that you can't get good marks if you do skip them. So just think about that. And these will be live, and they'll be face to face and there won't be recorded because they're more about you guys participating if you really don't come then the core components of the of the work, which is already pre recorded, like this, should be fine for you to understand what's happening.  So there'll be a synchronous open surgery for one hour a week, it could be via zoom. It will be once a week, as I say, and it means that we can actually chat face to face. Now, you won't need to be there if you don't want to be simply. You don't need to be at the surgery. That's just a spot where if you feel that you need some feedback, you need something that's synchronous, something that is where we're talking to Together, then that's fine, you can turn up to that. But it's you don't have to go there. It's really just for problems or to go through examples or if there's something you didn't quite understand. Then we can go and talk about it on the on that zoom call, and I'll be there you just, you'll get the code sign-in when you like it anytime you write within that one hour, but it will finish on the hour, so you know, you need to come beforehand. Don't leave it till the very last moment. Okay, so we're done. You'll notice that there's a transcription available with this video, the transcription has been made also into subtitles, and there'll be a transcript and subtitles for every video that you see. So make sure if you need those subtitles, make sure that you switch them on in your particular video viewer.

Okay, so, have a good rest of your week, and we'll see you in the next one.


