---
# Documentation: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/managing-content/

title: "0.2 - Assignment Overview"
subtitle: "Preamble - Core"
summary: "This is an assignment overview. It's still logistical, but I want to tell you about the assignments, why they were created, and really, why they were put together and what they're there to test."
authors: [Simon Harper]
tags: [marks, assignment, work, ux, paper, control, summarise, important, lecture, xerox parc, thought, formative, user experience, understanding, expertise, summative, feedback, insight, words, add]
categories: []
date: 2020-07-21T10:41:24+01:00
lastmod: 2020-07-21T10:41:24+01:00
featured: true
draft: false
reading_time: true
share: false
profile: true
commentable: false
editable: false

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder.
# Focal points: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight.
image:
  caption: ""
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: 

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this post with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["internal-project"]` references `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects: [part-0]
---

This is an assignment overview. It's still logistical, but I want to tell you about the assignments, why they were created, and really, why they were put together and what they're there to test.

* {{% staticref "files/ux36-0.2_slides.pdf" "newtab" %}}Download the Slides{{% /staticref %}}
* {{% staticref "files/ux36-0.2_transcript.pdf" "newtab" %}}Download the Transcript{{% /staticref %}}
* {{% staticref "files/ux36-0.2_subtitles.srt" "newtab" %}}Download the Subtitles{{% /staticref %}}


# Video

{{< video src="ux36-0.2.mp4" controls="yes" >}}

# Transcript
Welcome again to User Experience UX36. And this is the assignment overview. So it's still logistical, but I want to tell you about the assignments, why they were created, and really, why they were put together and what they're there to test. So there's two types of assignments that we'll be working with. There's the formative assignment, which is for feedback only. So you don't have to do it. It's optional. If you don't want to do it, you don't need to, but you must do it within the allocated time. We can't do it afterwards because we can't reallocate the TA resources to help with the marking and the feedback to you. So, you must if you want to do it, you must do it within the first period of time that we talked about in the lectures in the video lectures. After that, there's two summative assignments. So after you've had your feedback, you can do the two summative assignments which contribute to the overall mark, they're 15% each. So it's reasonable to get those under your belts before you go into the main tests, if you like in the main part of the work now the assignments themselves, you should, you should try and do them. I think trying to get them all done by the end of reading week, okay, so you'll get a good idea of what you need to do and how you need to approach them by coming to the discussion lectures and the the kind of the consolidation lectures and you should be able to do them, you know, probably within the first six to seven weeks, okay? So try and get those out of the way if you possibly can and if you feel uncomfortable with it, that's what then that's what they're meant to be there for. Now, the first one is the formative assignment, discussion topic. This is understanding and scoping and defining the user experience. And the reason why this was created this paper was selected is because it really shows that in 2009, you'll find out that even today, nobody really knows what UX is. So the good point is, if you don't know what it is, I don't know what it is we're making our own definitions. The good thing is that nobody's wrong. But we do need to define the terms when we're in discussions with other people of what we actually think this is, this is about. So this survey approaches is a way of kind of understanding what UX is. And so what happened was that Effie Law, who is the the, the main author of this, went to the CHI conference, which is a major conference for Computer Human Interaction, and she wanted to ask the people who came there what they thought it was, or at least there was questionnaire that they were able to rank what, with agreement or disagreement rank, what they thought it was really about on a number of different metrics and a number of different axis. And so I think it's important for us to kind of read through this to understand what the, what the outcomes were and also what the negative points were, really what were the failings of this survey approach. And we do use this as a critically important part part of the course. So let's not get serious, and let's not, you know, stray too far that this is a good bit of work. But it's a good idea for us to chat about this in the context of this formative assignment so that you can kind of pick up what you need to do so that you'll get feedback from from this first kind of dry run and assignments, but it's optional. 

The next one is the summative assignment. So this is the first summative assignment and it's designing the star user interface. So star user interfaces were really where all GUIs began. It's something that was created out of Xerox PARC which was an awesome place and still is. But it's an awesome place where there was a lot of excellent work going on through the 60s 70s and 80s. And indeed, this is really where where Steve Jobs took his inspiration for the way that the the Mac should work. This kind of idea of GUIs and how it all fits together, it was really proved at Xerox PARC. And they did this other thing that was really awesome, called dogfooding. whereby they would all use the star user interface on all of the machines in their in Xerox PARC in their company. So therefore, they proved it by actually using it. So really good, really good. article here on designing it and something you should take forward to your user testing if you possibly can.

The final one is the second is the second summative assignment. And this is voice loops as corporative aids in space shuttle mission control. The reason why I selected this one is because I wanted you guys to think that UX sounds sort of nice and fluffy, and it feels like apps, it feels like iOS, it feels like Android, it feels like that kind of thing. But that's not all it is. UX is really critically important in lots of computational situations and device based situations, including the computational work here, on the space shuttle. Also on computational work, for things like nuclear power stations, and how the safety critical systems such as fly by wire aircraft can really screw up. If we don't get the user experience right in a faithful way. And when I say user experience We'll be coming to this in the future, of course. But when I say user experience, I don't just mean, you know, does it look nice, that's not the whole point. User Experience is about the full experience of the user, how the control flow works, etc, etc. And even down in devices to the way things look and the way things feel, because we have a tactile sense. So we want to make sure that this is an important, you know, we want to make sure that we don't get things wrong, even outside, if you like, of the software. So, there are a number of apocryphal stories, you know, one of them is that you'll see some images of nuclear power plants where they have different beer taps on the top of each of the control arms. And that's because the control arms all look the same. And so they didn't know they couldn't differentiate or remember which one was which. So they put a beer tap on it, or at least to be a pull on it with a little sign on each of them telling them what they actually did, after the event after the nuclear power station has actually gone into service. Because the people who are operating just remember it's too complex, okay? They all look the same. That's not what you want when it comes to something that's a safety critical as the controls of a nuclear power station, right. And you could also say the same thing about the the Airbus crash from Brazil to Paris, whereby, in that particular accident, you had the ability for a pilot who was the copilot to be doing one thing, ie putting inputs into the system which were going down, and for another pilot to be pulling back so that they would go up. And of course, these two things start to interact with each other. They didn't think when they designed the system, that if somebody is already putting control inputs in one way that we should at least say you're the one is barred from doing it and you have to do something else, you know, there has to be a switch that changes from one to the other. This is because in typically in aircraft, you would say, one pilot would say I have control and the other person say, yes, you have control, that'd be a confirmation, verbal confirmation. But in situations which are highly stressful, where you're not sure what's happening, those situations sometimes get missed, okay, because it's stressful we're people. So therefore, it's a good idea to have user experience designers in there as well to make sure that the safety critical systems work.

So how are we going to approach these? Well, the thing that you need to think about is it's not a summary of the paper because I can read it and get a summary. What I want is your insights in the summary. So tell me why the paper is important. Why should What should I know and why is it important. And how does this paper affect our development? What insights does the paper have and How do they affect us? Can we use the paper to our advantage? The reason why we ask these questions is because these are the kind of things that your bosses will need you to answer. They are not UX experts, they are not research and development experts like you are going to be when you get into their company, they will ask you for a brief on a paper, they expect you to give the value added. They can read the paper, they're smart enough, they're your boss, right? What you need to give them is your expertise which your training which they haven't had. And you can only do that by knowing the area and be able to synthesise information from other parts of your knowledge with this knowledge of the paper that you're reading into something that's useful to those to those people, those technical people, those business people. So summarising the paper you need to do a little bit of that but that is not all you need to do. You need to analyse it you need to evaluate it to to come up with With some 250 words, so it's very brief insight. Now, you don't need to focus on the whole paper, you can give a brief overview and then say, this is the most important thing for us this bit and ignore the rest. That's okay. It's not you can't say everything in 250 words, you need to be able to understand what is important for you and for your company and therefore summarise it to that to that company, okay, outcome. So, I think that the important thing here is that there is a skill to summarising a paper. But you I need to add the analysis in the evaluation. You need to come up with your 250 words as an industry standard. But you need to add your own insight you need to add your own understanding to this kind of work so that the people who have employed you get the value added of your expertise, what you're trying to say is, I'm an expert. And I'm going to tell you about this particular paper within the light of my expertise. That's what we're trying to get to. It's not enough to just summarise it. So like I say, in, you know, you interpret the paper, you add your insight, your expertise, in this context, it's about the UX course. So you add your expertise in you being UX, you might draw in bits from the other courses that you've taken, that's also perfectly acceptable to make those links and synthesise that information into this particular work.

It's difficult to not just produce a summary so I suggest you get one of your friends to read over it, see whether they think it's a summary or see whether they think there's some value added in there as well. Okay. Think to yourself, could anybody have just read this paper and then summarise it? Is my 250 words could anybody have written them that read the paper and write my 250 words. If that's true, your 250 words aren't correct. If it isn't true if you if you actually think so far, no, actually, there's lots of different bits that I've pulled from different areas in it. That's what we want. Also, make sure you reference things. Okay? Make sure that you take other sources and reference them in your work. I say three or four sources of you can have some informal sources, you can have more formal sources like papers, put them into your work. So it allows you to say why you think something why you've said something, typically, you'd write the 250 words, and then you go back and put in the references where you think the reference backs up what you've said, it kind of tells people why you think something with cold hard facts. Okay? Not just Oh, I thought of it one day and so that's, that's why I wrote it. 

As I said previously in the welcome. late marks the university rules apply. So let's not be thinking that we can do anything about those late marks. You know, it all goes into the university systems and it's really out of our hands as soon as those marks come in there. And the marking rubric, you can see this online, and it's the only thing that the TAs get to look at, including, there's no hidden way to mark an assignment, all the market instructions are available for you to see and for the TA is to use to mark with. Okay, so you need 35% for structure and argument, knowledge and understanding 35% and original thought 30% Okay, so that's where we're going going for for this. And, and you can see what those things mean what it means to get, you know, a 35% as opposed to a 5% in structure and argument on the website. So all that's open. You can also see it in your Turn-It-In submission, but it's all there on the website. So there's nothing hidden from you, everything is explicit. You should be expecting to get the marking and feedback within two weeks. So you can do better in the next one. So that's why I would suggest that you kind of stages these every two weeks do or maybe or when you get the marks back do one so that by the by the time you get to the kind of third one, you've had the experience of doing too and you can hopefully get better and better marks as you go on. We've also got real examples from previous years. These are all online as well so you can see what the best look like from previous years. The thing you should also know about both the assignments and the and the exam. I mark them based on what I think is appropriate for you, what's the correct Mark? Okay. I'm not trying to be harsh I'm not trying to be easy. I'm trying to be dispassionate. I'm trying to make sure that, that what you're writing here is what both I would expect. But also make sure that for other people, they've, you know, if they've written a really good, excellent piece of work, they should be getting better marks than you, right? I mean, if you haven't done that, okay, so I'm not trying, I'm trying to be as objective and dispassionate about this as possible in that this means that it's possible for people to get 100% there's no 95% or 99% because nothing's perfect or 90%. You can get 100% in these assignments. Last year in the exam, I had two people no had one person who got 100% in the exam, I could not find a way. I could not find anything wrong with it. Okay, they got 100%. Likewise, though, for the assignments and for the exams you also can easily get 10's Okay, it's very difficult unless you don't turn up to get zero, it's very difficult if you submit an assignment that's actually got words in it, that makes sense in some way. But you're going to get more than zero, but it could happen. So, just be mindful of the fact that if you put in a good effort and you do the work, you'll get the marks. There's no scaling, weighting or anything else. Okay? You get the marks if you do good work. Okay, and again, we don't so hopefully, the next lecture that that you should be attending certainly in the next lecture, that I'll be giving the first lecture for this course is a face to face lecture now that will either be via zoom or by one of your other connection tools. Or it might even be who knows, actually co present in a lecture theatre, you never know!


